---
title: Announcing the Graduate Certificate in Digital Humanities
author: mpbryant
layout: post
categories:
  - Announcements/Opportunities
---

The Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis (CESTA) at Stanford is proud to
announce a new graduate certificate in digital humanities program, starting fall
quarter 2014. Please see below for details.

### Summary

The Graduate Certificate in Digital Humanities (GCDH) meets a growing need among
the humanities for training in digital methods by leveraging existing resources
at Stanford University.  The GCDH program will draw upon the community of
expertise in the Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis (CESTA).  Over the past
several years, dozens of graduate students have taken classes taught by CESTA
affiliated faculty and postdoctoral fellows, and participated in workshops and
seminars sponsored by CESTA. The CESTA Graduate Certificate in Digital
Humanities offers a formal structure for this activity and allows graduate
students to acquire and deepen their technical and conceptual skills as well as
to strengthen their position in the competitive job market within and beyond the
academy.

The GCDH seeks to strike a balance between the cultivation of technical skills
and their practical application within project-based Digital Humanities
research.  The program is meant to be relatively lightweight in terms of
specific requirements and flexible as to content and timing in order to best
support the work students are doing in their home departments.  Core classes and
exposure to the CESTA research community will ensure that students leave the
program with solid skills and the experience of learning in a cohort
environment.

Completion of the program will result in both a Certificate, signed by the CESTA
Director and the Chair of the doctoral student’s home department, and, through
the program, the student will also develop a digital portfolio suitable for the
job market.

### Pilot Plan: GCDH 2014-2017

**Course work**

Students wishing to take part in the first cohort starting in 2014-15 and
thereafter will be expected to complete one GCDH-approved graduate core course
for a letter grade, and one additional approved elective course.  The approved
core courses for the first year of the program are:

  * Spatial History (HIST 401a)
  * Literary Lab (ENG 303C)
  * Humanities+Design (DLCL 202)

Students who have completed any of the core courses, or equivalent courses
taught by members of the program, in past years are eligible to move forward to
the next step in the GCDH program.

Following or concurrent with the completion of the required core course,
students must complete the following two certificate components:

  * Additional coursework (1 or more classes, may be taken pass/fail, must be
approved in advance by the committee in charge) in computer science, information
design, statistics, network analysis, linguistics, or other fields approved by
the student's supervisor and the CESTA committee in charge. A list of course
recommendations is forthcoming.

  * Independent research project and portfolio including a finished project
which will be evaluated and approved by both an Academic Council supervisor and
be accepted as an affiliated project in one of CESTA’s labs.  The duration of
such projects must be a minimum of 1 academic quarter. Students may take up to
5 units of credit as directed reading for the purpose of completing the
independent research project.  Final projects will be included in the student’s
e-portfolio and published on the CESTA website.

*or*

  * Supervised collaborative research in a CESTA lab with the expectation that the
student’s participation culminates in a DH product substantially of the
authorship of the student—2 quarters minimum duration. The student’s portion of
the research will be included in the e-portfolio and published on the CESTA
website.

**Staffing:**

The GCDH program is staffed primarily by CESTA. Core faculty include Mark
Algee-Hewitt, Franco Moretti, Richard White, Dan Edelstein, Paula Findlen,
Giovanna Ceserani, Walter Scheidel, Elaine Treharne, Amir Eschel, and Zephyr
Frank. Affiliated CESTA faculty include Allyson Hobbs, Edith Scheffer, Caroline
Winterer, Mark McGurl, Ana Minian, and Mikael Wolfe.

Technical expertise is provided by CESTA staff members and the extended CESTA
community. Included in this group are the following: Celena Allen (GIS), Erik
Steiner (visualization design and cartography), Ryan Heuser (programming),
Nicole Coleman (information design and visualization), and Jason Heppler
(digital history). Beyond the core staff and affiliates, the program will draw
upon the expertise of Elijah Meeks (information design) and Karl Grossner
(information design and cartography).

**To Apply:**

Admission to the program is on a rolling basis, and students may apply at any
time. Please submit a letter of interest and any supporting information to CESTA
Lab Manager Matt Bryant,
[mailto:mattbryant.stanford@gmail.com](mattbryant.stanford@gmail.com). For more
information about the new GDCH program or CESTA in general, please see
[http://cesta.stanford.edu](http://cesta.stanford.edu) or contact Matt at the
email above.


